Tech Talk - Bitcoin
Ugo Dos Reis
2020-10-25
<p>In 3Blue1Brown's youtube video "But how does bitcoin actually work," the YouTuber teaches the viewer what goes on behind the scenes of bitcoin. The video introduces the topic by discussing how ledgers work. As expected, trust can be an issue as one person may decide not to pay their share or may add transactions for malicious purposes. These issues lead to the introduction of cryptocurrencies (like bitcoin), which are secure and trustworthy ledgers. With the basic idea explained, 3Blue1Brown then goes into the math/cryptographic aspect of bitcoin. The YouTuber introduces topics like secret and public keys to show how digital signatures are created. Afterward, "proof of work" and SHA256 (a cryptographic hash function) are presented to demonstrate how to keep track of valid ledgers. The video then goes into more detail on how bitcoin works, and you can watch it yourself (link at the end of the post).

<p>Overall the video is very educational. As someone who had never dug into the details of bitcoin, the presentation intuitively explains cryptocurrencies. The keys to the explanation were the simple introduction to ledgers and their problems as well as the graphics. 

<p>Without taking ~6 minutes in the beginning to discuss ledgers, the viewer wouldn't have understood the purpose of bitcoin and its math. After all, bitcoin matters because it solves the issues of having to trust the parties involved in transactions; modern cryptography is just the tool. The video exposes a couple of problems with ledgers, like a person adding malicious transactions, and then addresses how bitcoin solves them, with an explanation of how the math behind the solution works. The description of ledgers makes it easy to follow the video later on as everything can be brought back to a problem with physical ledgers and how cryptocurrencies address the issue. 

<p>Outside of the useful ledger explanation, the graphics also have a positive impact on the video. Due to cryptocurrencies being a math-heavy topic, having the video show actual numbers, who calculated them, and why the numbers are needed helps understand what is happening without having to understand every bit of the math. It's one thing to say "Bitcoin is decentralized by having everyone keep a copy of the ledger" and actually showing multiple characters with their ledger and how they got it. Without graphics, it would have been nearly impossible to explain how all the parts of bitcoin come together in such a simplistic manner.

<p>As a whole, the video stays relevant and doesn't go too deep into the very complicated math, making the video accessible to most people. Through the use of real-life examples and graphics, 3Blue1Brown makes the presentation easy to understand and quite entertaining. It is made clear that math is just the tool, and the video focuses on how bitcoin solves transaction issues without just focusing on calculations. If you are looking to explore how cryptocurrencies work, then this video will explain everything you need to know. That is all for this week. Until next time!

<a>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bBC-nXj3Ng4 Link to the video